andeposi endk hada:
1-Good morning Everyone. My name is Ali Ait Houssa and today we will be discussing the Hybridization of the divide and conquer method 
and metaheuristic algorithms for better contrast enhancement in medical images.My thanks pour mon encadrant pour son soutien et son encouragement et aux membres de jury without further ado let's begin.

2-We're starting with a general introduction answering some questions such as:
What's a digital image ? How does a convolutional product work ? what does it mean to enhance an image ? and how can we measure it ?
What are divide and conquer and metaheursitics and how can we use them to enhance images ? and lastely we will be seeing some of the results.

3- there are two types of images: grayscale and RGB. Grayscale images are represented as a 2D matrix where each element corresponds to a pixel's
intensity value ranging from 0 (for black) to 255 (for white). it is a simple and yet effective way to represent an image for processing.

4-RGB images on the other hand. are represented as 3D matrices. each pixel in these images is composed of three values corresponding to red,
green and blue channels. their combination determines the final color of each pixel.

5-For convolution in mathematiques. It is a mathematical operation that takes 2 functions and outputs a third one. where we take the second 
function and slide it accross the first one while multiplying each value with its corresponding one. and finally suming them up to get the final
value for that point. Here are some examples above:

6-In the context of image processing this operation is used to apply (kernels or filters)that are small matrices typically of size 3x3 or 5x5
(here are some examples of kernels), where we apply them to an image to enhance its features or extract informations. When applying it, we 
slide the kernel over the image and for each position we compute the sum of the product of the kernel and the corresponding image pixel values.
this operation helps in various tasks such as edge detection and image sharpening. here are some examples of the effect of some kernels.

7-this slide demonstrates the process of applying a convolution product to an image.

8-the goal of image enhancement is to improve the visual quality of an image, making it easier to analyse which sums up to contrast and brightness
adjustments, sharpening and noise reduction. one measure we use to assess enhancement is the EME function that stands for Effective measure of 
enhancement. Higher EME value indicates better enhancement. the eme function breaks down the image into blocks and then calculating the maximum,
minimum of each block and using them in the formula.

9-The divide and conquer strategy is a problem solving approach that consists of diving it into smaller sub problems. Solving them and then 
combining them to form a solution for the original problem.

10-An example of divide and conquer is the sort and merge algorithm that takes an array and divides it into smaller arrays and sorting them up
and finally merging them to form a sorted array.

11- for our problem we are we are going to decompose the image into high and low frequency components. that could be visualised as it follows.

12-we can get each of them by convoling the original image with the following kernels. so we can process them seperately. once the decomposition
is obtained we construct an image V by a random linear combination of those images.and then we thrive to find the best weights that makes the linear 
combination an enhanced image. In other words to have higher EME value for the resulted image. For this we are going to use metaheuristics.

13-Metaheuristics are strategies designed to solve optimisation problems. where we thrive to find local or global optimum of a function.Some
popular examples are genetic algorithms, ant colony and PSO that are population based. while simulated annealing is a single solution method.

14-in this project we are using GSA, FPA, SCA and PSO

15- lets talk first about the GSA which is inspired by the laws of gravity. In GSA solution candidates are considered as objects with masses.
and their performance is measured by their masses, the fitter they are or rather the closer they are to an optimum the heavier they get and
they attract other candidates to them which leads to better space exploration.

16-presenti flowchart

17-FPA is inspired by natural pollination process of flowers. It simulates the transfer of pollen from one flower to another which helps in
finding optimum solutions. 

18-presenti flowchart dyal FPA

19-SCA is a mathematical model that uses sine and cosine functions to update the position of solutions in the search space. this method balances
exploration and exploitation through randomizzed adjustements.

20-werri flowchart dyal SCA

21-PSO is inspired by the behavior of birds flocking. In pso particles move based on their experience and their neighboors experience.

22-werri flowchart t PSO

23-For this project we've used Python and some python libraries such as Numpy as usual for computation and OpenCv for image processing.

24-werri results.

25-we conclude that the combination of divide and conquer and metaheuristics is highly effective for image enhancement. metaheuristics could perform 
better if parameters are well set.

26-thank you for your attention and i am open to any question you may have.